https://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/337320/can-a-808nm-laser-diode-with-power-400mw-burn-skin



http://www.learnabout-electronics.org/Semiconductors/diodes_26.php

Laser Classifications

Lasers are classified into four broad areas (plus sub areas) depending on the potential for causing biological damage. When you see a laser, it should be labelled with appropriate class designation, briefly described below:
Typical Laser warning stickers
Fig. 2.6.9 Typical Laser
Warning Stickers

    • Class 1 − Safe under conditions of normal use. Output is restricted to less than 0.39mW at 600nm (less for shorter wavelengths).
    • Class 1M − Lasers producing divergent beams, safe for all conditions of use, except when passed through magnifying optics such as microscopes and telescopes.
    • Class 2 − Low power visible lasers that emit above Class 1 levels but at a radiant power not above 1mW. The concept is that the human aversion reaction to bright light (the blink reflex) will protect a person. This class is used for laser pointers.
    • Class 2M − Similar to Class 2 but can allow more power as beams with this classification must produce
                wide or diverging beams. Light passing through a viewer's pupil must not be greater than
                that allowed in class 2.
    • Class 3R − Moderate power lasers below 5mW, considered safe where viewing is restricted, giving low
                risk of injury.
    • Class 3B − High-power pulsed lasers up to 500mW: Hazardous to view (except as reflected light from a
                matt surface) significant controls such as protective eyewear and safety interlocks are
                required of Class 3B laser facilities.
    • Class 4 − High power lasers greater than 500mW. They can burn the skin, and cause potentially
                devastating and permanent eye damage as a result of direct or diffuse beam viewing.
                They may also ignite combustible materials, and thus may represent a fire risk.
                This classification includes many industrial, scientific, medical and military lasers.

Equipment using lasers of any of the above classifications will be found to carry a warning label similar to those in Fig. 2.6.9 outlining the hazards and the classification of the laser used.

The above list is an abridged version of the laser specifications contained in the IEC 60825-1 standard and should not be relied on as a comprehensive guide. The full standard, together with other relevant safety information can be purchased from the International Electrotechnical Commission Webstore
